<h1>Cambridge</h1>
<h3><em>People's Republik</em></h3>

Of all the towns and suburbs of Boston, Cambridge is probably the one with the most character. Most people know it as the home of 2 prominent universities. Yet it's also a potpourri of ethnicities, social standings, religious and political beliefs. It's usual to see punks and academics, trendsetters and townies, blue-bloods and recent African immigrants, moderate liberals and die-hard liberals, poets and vagrants, of course a few tourists and the usual weirdos all mingling together. 

The squares are the center of activities and are packed with an eclectic mix of cafes, restaurants, bars, clubs, specialty and mainstream shops. They stay open when most other places have gone to bed, and remain lively regardless of time of day. Each square has its own characters. 

Kendall is where many biotech and IT companies are located. Not surprisingly it's mainly deserted after working hours. There are few attractions here, except for a few good restaurants, bars, the popular independent movie house, and of course yours truly :)

Central Square is probably the most lively with its diverse offerings. This is where many locals hang out. It's not unusual to see a long line of partygoers outside a popular club such as the Middle East.

Harvard is the most upscale and touristy, Many chain retailers have moved in, a fact decried by many local residents. During the warmer months this is where the street performers and musicians ply their trade. There are good cafes, teahouses, restaurants, new & used bookstores, music shops, etc. Most tourists make a beeline here.

Inman Square is in the midst of the predominantly Portuguese and Brazilian East Cambridge. It's home to many ethnic restaurants, Latin clubs and the best ice cream shop in Cambridge.

Porter Square is home to the largest concentration of Japanese and Korean restaurants and shops in the Boston area. The nearby Somerville neighborhood is chockfull of college students, and Davis Square is another lively local hangout.

While Cambridge is largely blue-collar, thanks to its predominant immigrant and student population, it's probably the most liberal town in the country. No surprise it's been called the People's Republic. 

It's probably the only place in the world where I could have lived with Thai, Argentine, Malaysian, Indian, Polish, Bulgarian, Canadian, Swiss roommates, as well as having a Portuguese landlord.

On MIT's campus are several architectural curiosities associated with such names as IM Pei, Eero Saarinen, and Alvar Aalto. This auditorium overlooking Massachusetts Ave was designed by the Finnish architect Saarinen. He was also the brainchild of the chapel that sits across the lawn.

--

Mt Auburn Cemetery is the first garden cemetery in America. Full of interesting sculptures amid a luxuriant botanical setting, it's a tranquil and beautiful retreat, particularly in the autumn and spring. It's only 15 minutes by bus from Harvard Square.

--

Pros: Eclectic ethnic offerings; lots of activities for tourists/locals; sceneries
Cons: Some neighborhoods are sketchy; certain townie aspects
In a nutshell: Where the locals play


