<h3>Driving in Europe</h3>

We rented a car from Europcar, which is all over Paris, through AutoEurope.com. The cost for a mid-size sedan for 15 days is around 750 Euros, a big chunk of which went to the middleman. Next time I'd look into renting directly from Europcar which would undoubtedly be cheaper. 

In grade school I used to own a bicycle made by Peugeot. During the trip I drove a Peugeot 406. I'm in love with Peugeot cars, which sport sleek looks and smartly done interiors. We logged 5000km together through 4 countries in 15 days. This was a lot of driving, but it wasn't as much as my 2002 trip in the Western USA and Canada, when I drove almost 5000 MILES in 3 weeks. And driving in Europe is a lot less tedious than driving through the parched desert of Nevada or the endless farmlands in Alberta. This was the first time I drove manual transmission as well, so it was loads of fun (well, actually it was a little scary while learning how :) "My" Peugeot runs on diesel, so she got great fuel economy (about 41 miles/gallon of mostly highway driving). Diesel also costs 15% less than gasoline. This is important as fuel cost in Europe is roughly 4 times that in the USA. Fuel prices are most expensive in France, followed by Germany and Austria; it's cheapest in the Czech Republic, along with everything else..

France has the best motorways (called autoroutes). They look brand-new and have excellent roadside facilities. It also costs an arm-and-a-leg to drive on French autoroutes. We had to stop for payage every half-hour, it seemed. In all we shelled out 30 Euros driving from Paris to Strasbourg! We tried the smaller, toll-free national roadways on the way back and discovered why traffic was so thin on the motorways. All the big trucks take to the smaller roads! Unfortunately the toll-free roads are often one-lane and have a speed limit of 100km/h compared to 130km/h for the motorways. We sucked it up and got back on the motorways.

I love driving on the German autobahns, mainly because there are no speed limits (mostly)! At intervals there are overhead electronic signs. If the speed limit isn't posted, you can go as fast as you want, and the Germans do! German drivers are maniacs behind the wheels! I've never driven so fast before, averaging over 100mph (166kph) at stretches, which was as fast as the 406 could pull. However the BMWs, Mercedeses, and Audis were blowing by me as if I were standing still! If you're too slow, they'd pull up right behind you, lights flashing, and continue tailgating you until you move over. I loved it. The autobahns are also free, so chalk up another one for the Germans.

Austrian motorways are a little smaller than their German counterparts. The speed limit ranges from 100kph to 130kph. I suspected, but wasn't sure, that if no limit was posted, then you could drive like the wind. So I just drove as fast as the person in the next lane. Which was pretty darn fast as Austrians are also heavy on the pedal :) To drive on the motorways, you need to purchase a toll pass called a vignette and stick it on the window. It costs around 7 Euros for a 10-day pass. Still much cheaper than in France.

On the way from Salzburg to Vienna, there was many stretches of road under renovation/construction, reducing the road to 2 lanes with no shoulders! And there are a lot of big trucks and trailers on the motorway. At times we had to drive mirror-to-mirror with lumbering behemoths whose wheels were as tall as the roof of our car, in the driving rain. Needless to say it was nerve-wracking.

Driving in the Czech Republic was interesting. We drove from Vienna to Cesky Krumlov. After crossing the border checkpoint, we drove through a village that seemed a virtual throwback to the communist era, complete with sputtering, ugly Skodas or Trabants that spewed black smoke. I had completely no familiarity with the road signs, which are in Czech. After driving for a while we had to come to a complete stop because there was literally a giant hole on the road, 10 feet deep and 30 feet across. We began to worry about getting lost in a strange country and not speaking a word of the language. Luckily my navigator remembered seeing a sign earlier that had a line with a big red circle through the middle. Guessing that this must have indicated "big hole in the road coming up", we backtracked and found a detour. We eventually made it to Ceský Krumlov okay, phew. After that we got on the motorway and it was a breeze. The signs are the same as in European Union countries.

You have to buy a toll sticker for driving on Czech motorways. I stopped by a gas station, opened my tourbook, and pointed the word out to the gas station attendant as I had no hope of pronouncing it (dalnicni znamka). But she didn't seem to understand. She pulled me outside and pointed to this and that, but I had no idea what she was talking about. I tried English, French and German, and even butchered some Czech from the phrasebook, to no avail. Finally she got an idea. She ushered me to one of the shelves where they stocked toys. She held a toy car in one hand and a toy truck on the other and looked at me questioningly. Oh! I pointed to the toy car. She smiled and got me the sticker for cars. It cost 100 Czech crowns, or about 3 Euros.