Established on March 1, 1872, Yellowstone National Park is the first and oldest national park in the world (US NPS).

Take a while to let that sink in. And perhaps that's a fitting status. Yellowstone may not be the largest park, the one with the highest mountain, the deepest canyon or the most impressive waterfalls, but they can all be found here. Indeed the grand dame of all national parks embraces so many wonders that those that came later seem no more than her young offspring.

At first count, Yellowstone has mountains, rivers, lakes, streams, canyons, waterfalls, forests, swamps, prairies, and the park sits on the caldera of an extinct volcano! The showpiece of the park, and indeed what it is most famous for, is its thermal features. Geysers, hot springs, fumaroles, mudpots are all found here. Sure, other places like Iceland and New Zealand have geysers and hot springs too, But nowhere else are all these amazing features so well represented!

But the best is yet to come. Yellowstone is home to abundance wildlife. Herds of bisons and elks roam the plains, while grizzlies lumber in the forest. Unless you spend all your time hunkered down in a trailer, your chance of seeing wildlife here is almost 100%.

Needless to say, Yellowstone deserves to be a natural wonder of the planet.

 Yellowstone NP - Yellowstone National Park
Old Faithful, the best-known geyser in the world. Geyser eruption can't be accurately predicted, but Old Faithful erupts at regular intervals that deviate little, hence its name.

 Yellowstone NP - Yellowstone National Park
The Lower Falls on Yellowstone's spectacular Grand Canyon.

Mammoth Hot Springs
In my opinions, Mammoth Hot Springs are the most amazing feature of the park. Words cannot adequately describe the exotic and intricate beauty of these springs. Sadly Minerva Terraces, the most beautiful here, has been dry since 2000.

Grotto Geyser

In the Old Faithful area, Grotto Geyser's fantastic bulbous shape is believed to be a result of geyserite covering the trunks of trees that had once grew there.

Castle Geyser
Also in the Old Faithful area, Castle geyser is so named because, well, it looks like the tower of a castle.

Calcite walls
These geometric formations are found above Tower Falls.

Tower Falls
Its moniker comes from the horn-like rock protrusions on either side. Unique and beautiful.

Lower Falls
The sudden plunge of the waterfalls will leave you dizzy, But more likely your breath will be taken away by the wide canyon ahead of you, while a rainbow forms beneath your feet.

The Grand Canyon
Not quite as grand as the actual Grand Canyon, Yellowstone's Grand Canyon is no less breathtaking. At one end are the majestic twin waterfalls, Upper and Lower Falls. Visitors can go right down to the edge of these falls.

Morning Glory Pool
This beautiful thermal pool once had a pure blue color. Now it looks pale blue-green. The reason was increased bacterial and algal activities thanks to a drop in pool temperature. This was in turn a result of blockage in the pool circulation caused by, amazingly, debris and trash thrown down by visitors! Despite warnings, the NPS has to dredge the pool yearly to clear it of debris.

The Visitor Center at Canyon Village
See a bison up close. This majestic animal, native only to the plains of North America, was driven to the verge of extinction in the late 19th century. "Buffalo Bill" was reputed to have killed 4200 bisons in a 17-month period. Thanks to conservation efforts, bisons again freely roam in protected parklands. Yellowstone is part of their refuge.

Fountain paint pot
A leisurely hike on a raised wooden walkway takes you to many gurgling, bubbling mudpots. Also here are some large geysers.

West Thumb geyser basin
West Thumb is so called because the inlet resembles a thumb of the greater Yellowstone Lake. Many mudpots and fumaroles are found here, accompanied by the pungent sulfurous odor.
